# Grace-Hospital-Transactions Analysis, Power BI dashboard revealing where care meets profitability in healthcare analytics.

Overview

This project analyzes Grace Hospital’s transaction data to uncover insights into revenue, expenses, patient care, and doctor performance. Using Power BI, an interactive dashboard was developed to track financial health, identify high-performing specialties, and provide data-driven recommendations for improving operations and profitability.


Objective

To transform raw hospital data into meaningful insights that support strategic decision-making, improve profitability, and enhance patient and doctor engagement.



Data Description

TransactionID: Unique identifier for each hospital
transaction.

Date: Date of the transaction.

RevenueAmount: The amount of revenue generated by
the transaction.

Expenses Amount: The amount of expenses incurred for
the transaction.

Doctors
FirstName: Doctor's first name.

_
Doctors
LastName: Doctor's last name.

_
Doctor
_
Gender: Doctor's gender
.
Specialty: Doctor's medical specialty.

PatientID: Unique identifier for each patient.
Patients

FirstName: Patient's first name.

_
Patients
LastName: Patient's last name.

_
Patients
_
Gender: Patient's gender.

ProcedureName: Name of the medical procedure
performed.

Category: Category of the medical procedure (e.g.,
Surgery, Radiology).

LocationID: Unique identifier for the hospital

location where the procedure was performed.

Country: Country where the hospital is located.

City: City where the hospital is located.

State: State where the hospital is located.

PostalCode: Postal code of the hospital location


Project Resourceshttps:
//github.com/pamela-omo/Grace-Hospital-Transactions.git



Tools Used 
Power BI: Data Visualization & Interactive Dashborad 
Excel/Power Query (ETL):Data cleaning and preparation.

Aim 
To provide a comprehensive performance analysis of Grace Hospital that highlights revenue growth opportunities, cost optimization strategies, and ways to strengthen patient and doctor engagement—ultimately aligning healthcare delivery with financial sustainability.
